# NEON Ecological Forecast Challenge - Aquatics theme

Herein lies my initial, meager attempt to forecast daily temperature and dissolved oxygen 7 days into the future in Posey Creek (a site within the National Ecological Observatory Network, or NEON). This work is motivated by the [Ecological Forecasting Initiative Research Coordination Network NEON Forecasting Challenge](https://ecoforecast.org/efi-rcn-forecast-challenges/). 

## Temperature forecast
Temperature forecasts were generated according to an AR(3) model fit to data from 2016-2021, and prediction intervals were calculated by bootstrapping the residuals. The model was selected and fit using the auto.arima function from the [forecast package](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/forecast/index.html). Note that the method for generating prediction intervals assumes independent, identically distributed residuals, which is most certainly a bad assumption. 

## Oxgyen forecast
Oxygen forecasts were generated according to a linear regression with temperature as a single covariate, with the error term following an ARIMA(1,1,1) model. The model was fit to data from 2016-2021 using the auto.arima function from the [forecast package](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/forecast/index.html). Prediction intervals were generated by propogating the uncertainty in the temperature forecast and by bootstrapping the residuals from the oxygen model. The assumption of independent, identically distributed residuals is also poor for oxygen.

## Future improvements
- Address autocorrelation of residuals by experimenting with different model structures.
- Partition and propogate uncertainties associated with initial conditions, parameters, and imperfect measurement.
- Assimilate data using a particle filter.

